We're back live. Hi. Like I said, one
quick meeting
done. And we are back
to removing the demons from
RL. Oops. Let me reply to one message
first.
All
right, we should be good.
Um, stream on. Oh, yeah, we're good.
Okay. Uh so Spencer is going to be back
in not very
long and uh he is going to be with uh uh
have the fixes I requested for G GPU
drive and then we will debug
that. Me sure I don't miss messages from
him. Yeah. And in the
meantime, we will go back to hyperp
shenanigans. In fact, I think it looks
like we have uh we have some runs
here. Yeah, 126 runs.
Perfect. So, this was just running the
whole time. And we can see that the vast
majority of
these got stuck way down here.
So, let's figure out why why that
happens.
Right. So this is where uh the issue is.
Let me explain a little bit what uh what
is going on right here. Um
so the main issue that we've been having
is that the hyperprem sweep tries to run
really short experiments for some
reason.
even though it's it's expressly designed
not to do that like like that's a common
issue that literally this is algorithm
was designed to prevent happening. So I
don't know why this is happening. We're
going to figure that out right now.
So, this is going to run one experiment
and then it will hit our uh our break
point and fix up this API stuff in the
meanwhile. We uh moved exceptions into
the main package to make it just easier.
May I have a couple messages? Take care
of them. We'll get back to this one
second.
My bad, guys. I just have uh every so
often I get random client messages that
I have to go back and forth
Um target is
04. It just picks a random number. So
this is trying to be 40%. So we should
expect this to be uh 40% of the way
between 20 mil and 80 mil. So this is
going to be 50 milish.
Is that good math? No, that's not good
math at all. Uh
30. 40ish mil maybe. Yeah, 40ish mil.
lots
of I've just been context switching all
day. So,
uh, you know, hopping around on two
different technical projects and a bunch
of different messages. But, uh, the
thing that I am trying to figure out at
the moment is just why the sweep doesn't
work. If we get this sweep working
today, be in a good spot because that
kind of unblocks us on everything else
in puffer.
All
right. I think that conversation's
wrapped.
Um
hopefully whoever is still there
watching after I've been doing this for
the last 20 minutes, thank you. It will
be back to your regularly scheduled RL
content for the next bit.
Um,
norm
min is
negative
max is a bit over one.
now we have our
index
BPC best index is 19.
seconds. That seems low,
right? 1.4 mil. 19 seconds should be
like 30ish mil maybe.
thing? Wait, it's in this space, right?
GP log C norm. So then it's like
log d maxus log
n
this
23. That's not far off.
low. It's a little low when you would
expect it to be high,
right? Because you're multiplying by GPY
norm. you're taking score times uh the
distance from the predicted cost. So
higher scoring would be higher
cost. Okay, so that's kind of weird.
this. I mean, it's like not impossible
that this result is what is what you'd
get, but like overall, this is not what
you expect from a sweep. It should not
be running this many
uh this many
lowcost runs.
It should be like roughly evenly
distributed.
I guess why don't we check what GPY norm
is at that index,
right? This doesn't make any sense at
all because that shouldn't be
maximized. They're all negative.
Well, maybe that's the issue. Hang
[Laughter]
Oh my gosh, how tired was I when I wrote
that? Okay.
Okay. That is such a dumb bug. I was
literally minimizing instead of
maximizing. That's a
classic. Okay, we'll run a few uh a few
little experiments on this.
Cool. So, that should be something. Uh,
that is Spencer messaging
me that he's going to be a little bit
longer.
I got dinner at
6, but I will be back after that in case
he's not done before then. All right, so
we'll let this run a few quick
experiments and uh we will essentially
just see whether this does the correct
thing. Yeah, if you maximize instead of
minima, I'm surprised it actually did
anything in that case. That's kind of
ridiculous. Oh, you know what that is?
It just it tries to push to the min or
the max, right? Because
like Yeah, that's why they're like a few
experiments like way up high and
then it's probably just trying to push
all the way up or all the way down,
something like that.
So lo and behold, this is running for a
long amount of
time. If anything, now this probably
biases to be too
high actually. Hang on. Was that in How
long has that been there? How long has
that bug been there?
right? And
hyperp. Okay, so this was correct here.
This was just an introduced bug when um
I screwed this up. So, we had this
working correctly in all of our earlier
tests. All of them are fine. The
algorithm is completely valid. It's just
that we uh screwed this up in the most
recent cleanup
So, what's this? This is 80 mil and then
78 mil and then it went up to 96
mil and now it's doing like a 20
mil 25 mil. Yeah, that's fine. We'll see
if it does a bunch of those.
I'll be surprised if it still does
picking pretty much randomly in this
range.
Okay. So, I mean, this is now what I'd
expect, but now it's
like now it does feel like it's going to
the high end or the low end completely,
right?
I mean this is like the clearest
possible objective though. It's pick a
experiment length, try to run something
that's near that rank length but also
try to run something that is high score.
All it
is. Okay. Now biasing towards high score
here if it's going to start doing that
is actually more reasonable.
So wait what is true of that? Let's say
that we have a perfect model. Okay. So
then for any reasonable like any parto
front we should have if you pick a
specific
cost. Um and the metric is distance from
cost times score. You should never run
anything that is lower cost than your
expected target. you can run something
that is higher cost than the expected
target if the reward curve is very
steep. So if you're expecting that you
can do substantially better by running
something that is higher cost you will
do so. So then this does incentivize you
to fill out it kind of incentivizes you
to fill out the elbow I think of the
curve a little bit which is what we want
right like if your PTO front this is a
train run but imagine this is a PTO
front then
like you're going to fill out like
probably about this much of the curve
but you're not going to fill out over
here because like if you fill out here
you can move a little bit in the x axis
and do way better in the y- axis.
There's not really a point to doing
really lowc cost runs like this. But
actually I think this algorithm is is
exactly what we want in theory and uh we
will see why it is doing this thing.
Now you would not expect it to
be doing really like short runs very
often.
I mean, it is possible it does just
doesn't have a great cost model
yet. It's like too many short
runs. Oh, no, no, no. Hang on. It's not
too many short runs. This just bad
performing runs. That's different. Okay,
this is actually fine. Few short runs,
some long runs. Yeah, this is totally
fine. And this one does quite well as
well.
So yeah, we're getting like a good
spread now. So we'll see whether this
actually translates into uh
good score numbers here. It seems like
we're already getting like way more
reasonable stuff though,
right? Two, three of these. Yeah.
And then the goal of this
is as you fill in the
curve, you get incentivized to find you
naturally based on the shape of the
curve should get incentivized to find
more and more uh time efficient runs.
Okay,
good. This is good.
I don't know why it's still doing like a
reasonable Oh, see this is not even a uh
a short run, right? This is like a long
run in time steps. It's just really
fast. Okay. Yeah, we're happy here.
We're happy. I think that we push this.
We run this on mazes and other
things. Um I'm going to run this not on
my local so that we can actually like
keep the results.
and we will go from
there. 528. Got half an
hour. All right. Start by launching
these
runs. This one's not going to do
anything because it was like optimizing.
It was minimizing instead of
one. We also now know why this isn't
working,
And now this should actually be
something resembling like a good
sweep.
Perfect. Yeah, it's a little silly to
see like our sweep stuff completely
breaking. Um, but hey, it's a dev
branch. We know that this algorithm
works incredibly well. So, as soon as
this is fixed and maybe we fix a few
more small things with this, we should
be getting some very good
results.
Um, yeah, why don't we open this this
graph up real quick? Oh,
yeah. We've got the baseline. We got one
run that seems to match baseline here.
And then we'll see uh how this stuff
does as it runs more.
No reason to keep this going on local.
This will just run on this new sweep. Uh
and then next couple hours this will
finish
running GPU drive stuff for
Spencer. I would like to get GPU drive
working on this release branch if
possible.
I PR
it well is going to have new code
anyways. We'll have to do like a manual
merge into
that. Yeah, Spencer should be back
soonish maybe. depends how long he's
eating is. Uh let's look at some other
stuff in the meantime.
So today we figured out the sweep
errors. Uh we have we got training
running stably first of all and then we
also figured out the sweep errors for
the most part. We will continue
fine-tuning sweeps, but at least now
it's finding like reasonable quality
runs in here.
Uh we will have results by later
tonight from the initial sweeps so we
can actually see what is going
here. There are a few small things but I
think mostly at this point it's the two
things that on that like I mentally I
think I'm like the most bottlenecked on.
uh before being able to do the release.
Well, really three
things. It's going to be the getting
sweeps working nice and stable, which I
think we hopefully have most of that
working
now.
Um the rest of the general code cleanup
because like I don't want to like do the
final experiment and then just do some
code cleanup and screw up the results or
change the results. I'd like to have
most of the general code cleanup done
before we lock in final
results. And I guess the other thing
that's just going to take a while is
CUDA packaging. You know, why don't we
just start looking
into the CUDA packaging stuff.
Um because I just I know that's going to
be a pain. But like the issue right now
is we've just been shipping source for
puffer lib so far. We would ideally like
to ship
wheels. I think for the C extensions we
can get CI build wheel working for that.
But for for
CUDA, let me see. GitHub build CUDA
extends. Is this a
2021. One has to install a matching CUDA
systemwide.
Did they ever end up doing this? Because
if PyTorch included CUDA dev tools
this. Building CUDA extensions has been
long.
Yeah. Holy. So, this just kept going on
for a
while. Okay. This is the exact error
that I
hit. This is the exact error that I hit
that for like an hour
yesterday. Porch version available
within the isolated build environment
should be the same as the outside
environment.
Did this keep going? No, I already hit
the end of
this. How does PyTorch do this? PieTorch
you just you install the version for
your CUDA,
right? So PyTorch just builds and ships
all the
binaries. Like you don't just pip
install PyTorch and expect it to work
and everything, right? It works on like
most
cards, but like you have to get it only
works if you have like a reasonable CUDA
version. So like yeah, this is default
CUDA
126. So this has to match, right?
and they just give a dash dash. They
give an index
URL. So I mean I could do
this for
binaries. Let me think what the the
options are. Right. Option one is we
have a good CPU fallback.
I wonder how bad it is if you use the
CPU version,
right? We could probably optimize it so
that the CPU fallback is not bad.
then no, because the thing is when you
you pip install it, if you pip install
puffer liib, then you still will not
have
uh you still just won't have access to
the CUDA version like the CUDA dev most
of the
time. Okay. So if you pip install
without
CUDAV, then you get the CPU version. If
you pip install with
CUDAV, then you get the GPU
version.
that. And that's still just shipping
estist, I guess.
It would be such a better user
experience
though, like tremendously better user
experience if you could just pip install
the thing that you want and it
shipping for every Python version and
every CUDA version.
It's annoying that you have to build it
on a system with a GPU,
right? That doesn't seem like you should
have to do that. You have to
build Can you automate CUDA builds?
Automate CUDA
builds GitHub.
to I mean you just need to build from
like a certain like different Dockers or
whatever, right?
I mean the best case scenario here,
right? What I would like for Puffer is
I'd like you to just be able to kind of
like you do with Torch, you pip install
Puffer LIIB, you make sure that you get
the one for your torch drivers if it's
different from the uh the current
defaults, and then you call it a day. I
don't want to have to
manually go and like spin up VMs and do
all of
every so what would it be? I think it's
like for every every CUDA version that
you have to have, you spin up a
different dev
container minimum,
right? And then let's say that you have
like uh multiple different Pythons
installed. So then you just need you
need one container for each CUDA version
you ship. And then from each of those
you're going to ship let's say we do
like Python what 310 11 12 maybe
13. So like however many versions of
Python we're going to support as
well. And then if none of those work,
then it has to go to the fallback, which
is just going to install
um the CPU version of our extension and
will work as long as you have
GCC. So I have an idea of how we can
automate the builds. You do like CI
build wheel.
Okay. So this is
like this is something right working
examples translate
to. So they do this
right
install and I guess they ship
kernels. Should they have like an action
or
Should be an actions or whatever in
here, shouldn't
it. Is this the only one that has CUDA
listed? It is.
I don't usually like do this type of
stuff. So, let me see if we can figure
something out. And it looks like we're
going to have to do the GPU drive stuff
after uh after
dinner. The plan is I'm going to look at
this for a few. See if I can because I'm
going to have to do this like probably
next week. So, I'm just I figured it's a
good idea to take a look at what I'm I'm
dealing with.
Um, I'm going to go get dinner in a few
and then uh I'm going to be back after
dinner hopefully if Spencer is around.
Get GPU drive training very well and to
monitor the sweep
results. Where do you actually see like
what what like scripts they're running
to do this? Oh, hang on. CIA there.
Right here.
Right. Yeah. Right. So, this is their
script. This is good. Right. So this is
they have uh
Abuntu runs on Abuntu
22. They set this stuff up. So this is
kind of
So they build this super old mini Linux
thing,
you know, this type of stuff I think we
could actually benefit from. I don't
really like having like a bunch of
automated testing and stuff.
Um, it like adds a lot of overhead to
dev, but for like dev ops
specifically, I mean, I wouldn't mind
having to not not having to build the
darn dockers
manually and just having it push uh for
us our latest
containers. And then we can get our
containers with a couple different CUDA
versions.
Actually, we would have like different
uh different container
shipped. So then that solves the docker
issue, right? You just have you include
different bases.
And then the actual
build. I mean, the thing that would be
ideal, right, is if you uh you could
just like you specify your Docker M,
right? Like several different Docker MS
and then you just build the uh the
binaries and upload them based on those
dockers, right? Because like if you're
going to go build a few different
Dockers
anyways, you can just build your wheels
on those
dockers. Okay, I think I'm going to have
to invest some more time into like doing
the CI stuff. I really don't I've done
almost none because I just I do not like
CI for tests and stuff for Puffer. It's
just like you know you maintain the test
and then you end up having to like do a
bunch of dev work to maintain the tests.
It's like I have a few tests on pieces
of code that I know are very fiddly and
I work very hard to minimize the number
of pieces of fiddly code.
Um but I think for this this actually
can make sense because this is like this
is more like workflow automation stuff,
right?
where like you have to have um setups
for a few different uh a few different
versions. And this actually should make
it pretty
straightforward. Oh, hey Spencer, you're
back. God damn
it.
Okay, where are you?
Hey Spencer.
Hey, what's up? I'm probably gonna have
to go for dinner in like five, but um
yeah, no worries. I just wanted to
clarify a couple things and then Yeah,
let's do that and then we'll fix after
dinner we'll I will hop back in here and
we'll fix stuff. Yeah, no worries. I'll
probably go grab dinner at some point as
well anyways.
Um, okay. So, I got respawning going,
right? And I just reset it to the
original trajectory and all the things
if it would respond perfectly. Okay. Uh,
I changed the score metric to be if it
reached the goal throughout the length
of the entire episode, which is the 91st
step segment, right?
Yeah. And
then do we want to continuously reward
it? No. If it re if it can if it hits
the goal after already hitting the goal
once, like during the respawn, it hits
the goal and then it respawns and then
it's not off the goal again. Well, it
takes a while to go hit the goal again,
right? Some are really close, some are
far. Yeah, that's fine though. It can it
can get a reward for it gets a reward
once when it hits the goal and then it
respawns and then if it hits it again,
it gets one reward. It doesn't get a
reward for like sitting there
repeatedly, right? It just it respawns
every time it gets it once. Yeah, it
would just respawn and then it would get
a reward every time it Yes, that is
fine. Do that. Okay. Um, did
that
observations I don't think should
meaningfully change. The only thing I
did is I made sure that we're no longer
skipping OBS after um we're there. I
took out the masking. I removed
it's going to make it so much easier.
Terminals aren't used at all. Yeah, they
are. Well, technically it's it should be
um yeah, it's well, you can set the
agent being done whenever it hits the
goal technically and you could set
truncated whenever you hit the 91 steps.
Um we don't we do not use truncated at
the moment. We do use terminals. It is
used in the advantage function
calculation.
Okay. So oftentimes things will train
perfectly well without it, but
technically the correct thing to do is
to set it. Okay, I will leave it out for
now. That's fine.
Initial run did not get
to from using the same params was not
able to get to um
what did it get? 88% that we got. It
capped at like 40 or something. What's
the curve seeing right now? Huh? What's
the curve?
Um, let me just run one right now. I
didn't put a curve on it. When when I
saw I got to 40, I just went back to
seeing if I had a bug somewhere. Okay,
it should be like substantially better.
That's what I wanted to kind of just
make sure I got it. You might want to
set the dun, but yeah, I might set dun
I mean, I guess I could set done when it
reached the
goal. That way, at least it can know to
take it to the calculates advantages on
that group of time
steps. Uh, yeah, if it hits the goal,
you can set done. It's good.
Let's see. I mean, my personal my
personal theory is with the LSTM, it
really shouldn't freaking matter, but
like I don't know. I've had like
academic people be
like ins like incensed that I uh have
done such a a
thing. Fair enough. Fair enough. Um Mhm.
Okay. I mean, I think respawn should be
fairly simple. I don't see any other
reasons why this would be demonstrabably
worse. Did you Did you render it?
Hold
up. Should I take out the Is there any
reason to take out the the max at all?
Max,
the max pooling or should we still keep
that there? Why would you take that out?
Well, I don't see a particular reason
for it right now. No. What do you mean?
I mean
the max pooling it's like max pooling or
flatten, right?
Yeah. And if you flatten it's
gigantic. If you flatten like 32x64,
then you have to do
32* 64 as a hidden layer to the next
Oh, that's a 1,800 hidden layer just off
of that. Okay, fair enough. That is very
big. And also you lose order and like
you lose the ordering as well. The order
and variance.
this. All right, where is this?
General
chat. It's like 3 minutes into it. Seven
run.
Let me see.
Is it in gen chat or is in the voice
some voice? Uh the the gen whatever
we're in the gen chat. Okay. Yeah, I
think I see it. So, this is
But this is not really doing too hot.
No,
it could be the way I'm just using
representing score though.
What do you mean?
So when do you add a log?
I am adding a log at the end of the 91
second. Well, that's why you need to add
a log every time the agent either
collides or uh or reaches the goal.
Oh, okay. Never mind. I was being an
idiot. I did not reset on collision
because I was thinking collisions are
off. Okay, so that's one thing. And the
other thing is like since the agents are
no longer like get to goal and stay at
goal like you got to add the logs
whenever the agent dies like either like
it gets to the goal or or it uh
collides,
right? Like that's essentially your
agent roll out
um if the way I order it to say like I
set like an environment variable to
track if the goal has been reached or if
it's been
collided like it'll it would set it in
somewhere later in step whenever that
happens and then when you go back to the
start of the next step it would okay
there are a couple ways you could do it.
The way I was suggesting is technically
harder than the one that NYU has set up,
but I think we would still full self.
I always thought if you if you're
calling ad log this many times like some
like the indexing of it gets all funky.
No, it shouldn't. I got to run for
dinner though. So, uh I will I'll be
back on after for the folks on uh on
YouTube.
Um, this is all open source RLdev. You
can check this out at puffer.ai. Start
the GitHub to help us out. Join the
Discord if you want to get involved with
development. Thank